= sequel-rails

This gem provides the railtie that allows {sequel}[http://github.com/jeremyevans/sequel] to hook into {rails3}[http://github.com/rails/rails] and thus behave like a rails framework component. Just like activerecord does in rails, {sequel-rails}[http://github.com/brasten/sequel-rails] uses the railtie API to hook into rails. The two are actually hooked into rails almost identically.

The code for this gem was initially taken from the excellent {dm-rails}[http://github.com/datamapper/dm-rails] project.

== Using sequel-rails

Using sequel with rails3 requires a couple minor changes.

First, add the following to your Gemfile:

  gem 'sequel-rails'

... be sure to run "bundle install" if needed!

Secondly, you'll need to require "sequel-rails/railtie" in your config/application.rb file, and not require activerecord.  The top of your config/application.rb will probably look something like:

  # require 'rails/all'

  # Instead of 'rails/all', require these:
  require "action_controller/railtie"
  require "action_mailer/railtie"
  require "rails/test_unit/railtie"
  require "sequel-rails/railtie"

After those changes, you should be good to go!


== Available sequel specific rake tasks

To get a list of all available rake tasks in your rails3 app, issue the usual

  vendor/bin/rake -T

Once you do that, you will see the following rake tasks among others. These are the ones that sequel-rails added for us.

  ...
  vendor/bin/rake db:create                # Create the database(s) defined in config/database.yml for the current Rails.env - also creates the test database(s) if Rails.env.development?
  vendor/bin/rake db:create:all            # Create all the local databases defined in config/database.yml
  vendor/bin/rake db:drop                  # Drops the database(s) for the current Rails.env - also drops the test database(s) if Rails.env.development?
  vendor/bin/rake db:drop:all              # Drop all the local databases defined in config/database.yml
  vendor/bin/rake db:migrate               # Migrate the database to the latest version
  vendor/bin/rake db:migrate:down[version] # Migrate down using migrations
  vendor/bin/rake db:migrate:up[version]   # Migrate up using migrations
  vendor/bin/rake db:seed                  # Load the seed data from db/seeds.rb
  vendor/bin/rake db:sessions:clear        # Clear the sessions table for SequelStore
  vendor/bin/rake db:sessions:create       # Creates the sessions table for SequelStore
  vendor/bin/rake db:setup                 # Create the database, load the schema, and initialize with the seed data
  ...

== Supporting Multiple Databases

Sequel and sequel-rails support the use of more than one database per environment across your models.
Currently, additional databases can be entered at the top level of your database.yml:

  ...
  development:
    adapter: mysql
    database: development
    username: username
    password: password
    host: localhost

  test:
    adapter: mysql
    database: test
    username: username
    password: password
    host: localhost

  production:
    adapter: mysql
    database: production
    username: username
    password: password
    host: localhost

  extra:
    adapter: mysql
    database: extra
    username: username
    password: password
    host: localhost
  ...

You can then set an extra database for a model using the following syntax:

  class Foo < Sequel::Model(Rails::Sequel.database(:extra))

  end

Databases are only connected to once they are defined for a Sequel::Model

== Current Issues

* There are bound to be a lot, but I'm not yet sure what they are

== TODO (not necessarily in that order)

* SPECS
* README changes
* Publish SQL issued by sequel to rails subscribers

== Credits

The {dm-rails}[http://github.com/datamapper/dm-rails] team wrote most of this code, I just sequel-ized it.



== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== The sequel-rails team

* Brasten Sager (brasten)

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 The sequel-rails team. See {LICENSE}[http://github.com/brasten/sequel-rails/blob/master/LICENSE] for details.
